README.md, before:

# MatchSum
Code for ACL 2020 paper: *[Extractive Summarization as Text Matching](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.08795)*


## Dependencies
- Python 3.7
- [PyTorch](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch) 1.4.0
- [fastNLP](https://github.com/fastnlp/fastNLP) 0.5.0
- [pyrouge](https://github.com/bheinzerling/pyrouge) 0.1.3
	- You should fill your ROUGE path in metrics.py line 20 before running our code.
- [rouge](https://github.com/pltrdy/rouge) 1.0.0
	- Used in  the validation phase.
- [transformers](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers) 2.5.1

	
All code only supports running on Linux.

## Data

We have already processed CNN/DailyMail dataset, you can download it through [this link](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1FG4oiQ6rknIeL2WLtXD0GWyh6pBH9-hX), unzip and move it to `./data`. It contains two versions (BERT/RoBERTa) of the dataset, a total of six files.

## Train

We use eight Tesla-V100-16G GPUs to train our model, the training time is about 30 hours. If you do not have enough video memory, you can reduce the *batch_size* or *candidate_num* in *train_matching.py*, or you can adjust *max_len* in *dataloader.py*.

You can choose BERT or RoBERTa as the encoder of **MatchSum**,  for example, to train a RoBERTa model, you can run the following command:

```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7 python train_matching.py --mode=train --encoder=roberta --save_path=./roberta --gpus=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7
```

## Test

After completing the training process, several best checkpoints are stored in a folder named after the training start time, for example, `./roberta/2020-04-12-09-24-51`. You can run the following command to get the results on test set: (only one GPU is required for testing) 

```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python train_matching.py --mode=test --encoder=roberta --save_path=./roberta/2020-04-12-09-24-51/ --gpus=0
```
The ROUGE score will be printed on the screen, and the output of the model will be stored in the folder  `./roberta/result`.

## Results on CNN/DailyMail
Test set (the average of three runs)

| Model | R-1 | R-2 | R-L |
| :------ | :------: | :------: | :------: |
| MatchSum (BERT-base) | 44.22 | 20.62 | 40.38 | 
| MatchSum (RoBERTa-base) | 44.41 | 20.86 | 40.55 |

## Output
The summary generated by our models on the CNN / DM dataset can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/open?id=11_eSZkuwtK4bJa_L3z2eblz4iwRXOLzU). In the version we released, the result of **MatchSum(BERT)** is 44.26/20.58/40.40 (R-1/R-2/R-L), and the result of **MatchSum(RoBERTa)** is 44.45/20.88/40.60.

## Note

The code and data released here are used for the matching model. Before the matching stage, we use BertExt to prune meaningless candidate summaries, the implementation of BertExt can refer to [PreSumm](https://github.com/nlpyang/PreSumm).

Commit message:

release preprocessed file and pretrained model

README.md, after:

# MatchSum
Code for ACL 2020 paper: *[Extractive Summarization as Text Matching](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.08795)*


## Dependencies
- Python 3.7
- [PyTorch](https://github.com/pytorch/pytorch) 1.4.0
- [fastNLP](https://github.com/fastnlp/fastNLP) 0.5.0
- [pyrouge](https://github.com/bheinzerling/pyrouge) 0.1.3
	- You should fill your ROUGE path in metrics.py line 20 before running our code.
- [rouge](https://github.com/pltrdy/rouge) 1.0.0
	- Used in  the validation phase.
- [transformers](https://github.com/huggingface/transformers) 2.5.1

	
All code only supports running on Linux.

## Data

We have already processed CNN/DailyMail dataset, you can download it through [this link](https://drive.google.com/open?id=1FG4oiQ6rknIeL2WLtXD0GWyh6pBH9-hX), unzip and move it to `./data`. It contains two versions (BERT/RoBERTa) of the dataset, a total of six files.

## Train

We use eight Tesla-V100-16G GPUs to train our model, the training time is about 30 hours. If you do not have enough video memory, you can reduce the *batch_size* or *candidate_num* in *train_matching.py*, or you can adjust *max_len* in *dataloader.py*.

You can choose BERT or RoBERTa as the encoder of **MatchSum**,  for example, to train a RoBERTa model, you can run the following command:

```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7 python train_matching.py --mode=train --encoder=roberta --save_path=./roberta --gpus=0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7
```

## Test

After completing the training process, several best checkpoints are stored in a folder named after the training start time, for example, `./roberta/2020-04-12-09-24-51`. You can run the following command to get the results on test set (only one GPU is required for testing):

```
CUDA_VISIBLE_DEVICES=0 python train_matching.py --mode=test --encoder=roberta --save_path=./roberta/2020-04-12-09-24-51/ --gpus=0
```
The ROUGE score will be printed on the screen, and the output of the model will be stored in the folder  `./roberta/result`.

## Results on CNN/DailyMail
Test set (the average of three runs)

| Model | R-1 | R-2 | R-L |
| :------ | :------: | :------: | :------: |
| MatchSum (BERT-base) | 44.22 | 20.62 | 40.38 | 
| MatchSum (RoBERTa-base) | 44.41 | 20.86 | 40.55 |

## Output
The summary generated by our models on the CNN / DM dataset can be found [here](https://drive.google.com/open?id=11_eSZkuwtK4bJa_L3z2eblz4iwRXOLzU). In the version we released, the result of **MatchSum(BERT)** is 44.26/20.58/40.40 (R-1/R-2/R-L), and the result of **MatchSum(RoBERTa)** is 44.45/20.88/40.60.

## Pretrained Model
Two versions of the pre-trained model on CNN/DM are available [here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1dGz1yLRzvMHrocB_Agxo5YxA3MuQdyL5/view?usp=sharing). You can use them through `torch.load`. For example,

```
model = torch.load('MatchSum_cnndm_bert.ckpt')
```

## Process Your Own Data

If you want to process your own data and get candidate summaries for each document, first you need to convert your dataset to the same *jsonl* format as ours, and make sure to include *text* and *summary* fields. Second, you should use BertExt or other methods to select some important sentences from each document and get an *index.jsonl* file (we provide an example in `./preprocess/test_cnndm.jsonl`).

Then you can run the following command:

```
python get_candidate.py --tokenizer=bert --data_path=/path/to/your_original_data.jsonl --index_path=/path/to/your_index.jsonl --write_path=/path/to/store_processed_data
```

Please fill your ROUGE path in preprocess/get_candidate.py line 22 before running this command.


## Note

The code and data released here are used for the matching model. Before the matching stage, we use BertExt to prune meaningless candidate summaries, the implementation of BertExt can refer to [PreSumm](https://github.com/nlpyang/PreSumm).
